---
layout: post
title:  "Homestead Robotics Vision 2019 Overview"
date:   2019-07-25
excerpt: "With Arjun S"
tag:
- robotics 
- code
- hrtworkshops
comments: false
---


## Overview

A majority of the vision code is going to be written in Python. Python is a scripting language, which means that it is generally used for line-by-line type programs that are less object oriented, in contrast to Java, which has many classes and uses objects as its basis for executing code.

If you don’t know Python, it’s really easy to learn. This site has a good tutorial - going through the basics should be enough for now.

Make sure to install Python 3.6 and along with it, install a python package handler, pip. Again, be sure to install pip for Python 3.6

Since you all have taken Intro to Programming or at least done some work with Java on the robot, you’ll notice that Python is just another programming language, but with different syntax. A common mistake when working with Python is forgetting about indentation. It’s a pain, but you have to standardize the spacing to be either all tabs or all spaces. I recommend using tabs, ideally by having your editor automatically convert tabs to spaces. If you don’t standardize this, you will get many annoying indentation errors.


## OpenCV


The main library we will use to do computer vision is this library called openCV, which stands for open computer vision. As its name suggests, it is a completely open-source, user-contributed computer vision library.

OpenCV does most of the work for us, but it has so many functions that do complicated things, that sometimes it’s hard to know what to use. To install openCV, open a terminal window, and do pip3 install opencv-python. OpenCV requires a library called numpy, which does a lot of math functions, and is especially useful for working with large arrays(image data?) quickly. Install numpy with pip3 install numpy. If you ever get an error saying that a module is missing or couldn’t be found, just try pip3 install <module_name> and 9 out of 10 times it will fix the issue.

When it comes to vision in general, there are some matrices involved, but for the most part, the ones we’ll work with are more basic matrices and don’t need to be fully understood to be utilized. Simply treat them as 2D arrays.

Below are links to useful openCV samples to look into:

* [Python Table of Contents](https://docs.opencv.org/3.0-beta/doc/py_tutorials/py_core/py_table_of_contents_core/py_table_of_contents_core.html#py-table-of-content-core)

* [Colorspaces](https://docs.opencv.org/3.0-beta/doc/py_tutorials/py_imgproc/py_colorspaces/py_colorspaces.html#converting-colorspaces)

* [Contours](https://docs.opencv.org/3.0-beta/doc/py_tutorials/py_imgproc/py_contours/py_table_of_contents_contours/py_table_of_contents_contours.html#table-of-content-contours)

* [OpenCV Background Subtraction](https://docs.opencv.org/3.0-beta/doc/py_tutorials/py_video/py_bg_subtraction/py_bg_subtraction.html#py-background-subtraction)

* [This link has a bunch of Python files provided by openCV as samples - check it out if you are interested, but it is not necessary.](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/tree/master/samples/python)


## FRC Implementation


Similar to in the Java side of the robot code, vision utilizes network tables. For those who don’t know what network tables are, it basically creates a storage function for primitives and strings on a network. We use it in FRC to transfer and view data. For example, all the data we see on SmartDashboard is transferred through network tables, using the on robot router/radio as the host for the tables.
For vision, we use network tables to set values that are expected on the robot side. This past year, we would put an array with the depth, vertical and horizontal angle to a target all on network tables, and on the robot sides, it would wait for that value to change, and do something accordingly. Here is more detailed information and examples on WPI’s website on network tables and their general usage (in Java). For python, the structure stays the same, but you need a new module, and you call different functions. This site goes over using pynetworktables with examples.

So we’ve gotten this far - we know Python, openCV, and network tables, but how does this all really tie in to create something that the robot uses?

Here is the link to the vision code from the 2019 Build Season to look into and understand how it works. It is pretty well documented, and if you have any questions you can direct them to Arjun.
Your end goal should be to modify it to run and detect an object on your computer itself - without losing the core functions in the code.


## Finished?


Finished modifying that code? Send it to Arjun for him to check out. After that, expect to hear from him about additional projects that continue to explore vision. 


## Going Farther


For this offseason, we’re taking 2 volunteers who are willing to spend a lot of time to learn more advanced concepts that could be used for computer vision. Whether it gets finished/used is a different story, but regardless it’s a great experience. We will be picking one or two of the below concepts to work on. To partake in this, it doesn’t mean you have to have taken Calc or be an insane programmer - you just need to be willing to spend a lot of time to learn this and deal with handling a more advanced route with less documentation and examples and more of figuring it out yourself. Message Arjun if interested.

* _SLAM: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping_ - Finds robots position in an unknown world and generates a map of the surroundings. Extremely complicated and useless for actual competition purposes, but nice to have.

* _Machine Learning_: Training a computer to recognize different images and doing something based on the image seen. Again, complicated, and mostly useless for actual competition

* _Kalman Filtering_: Process by which you smooth out an input and remove external/internal noise from it. Somewhat complicated, and requires a decent amount of math, but this math is easier to learn than that for SLAM and ML. If it works well, it could be used for competition purposes
